Typescript development in Cirq and prototype bloch sphere implementation (#4171)
quantumlib/Cirq: cirq-web/cirq_ts/README.md

For 3D visualizations, we rely on the [three.js](https://threejs.org/) framework. Understanding their documentation is critical to understanding 3D visualizations in Cirq. 

For bundling the Typescript into Javascript that can be run in the browser, and for overall ease of development, we use [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).

### Visualization build structure

A good example on the build structure of a visualization is the Bloch sphere. Reference the `src/bloch_sphere/main.ts` file and the `CirqBlochSphere.class.ts` file to see the code. The `src/bloch_sphere/` directory should serve as a guide for how Typescript visualizations in Cirq should be  
developed in general. In the general sense, visualizations should have:
 - A "root" folder within the `src/` directory labeled according to the title of the visualization. All files and directories for a particular visualization will live here. In the case of the Bloch Sphere, this is `bloch_sphere/`.

>  - A `components/` directory which contains classes representing different components of the larger visualization, following typical object oriented programming techniques. In the case of the Bloch sphere, you can see that we have different classes for `Axes`, `Meridians`, `Text` etc.

Reviewer: +1 let's not forget to add an issue for this.

>  - Any additional directories with information necessary for the visualization (fonts, images, etc.). In the case of the Bloch Sphere, we can see a `fonts/` directory which holds necessary font data. 

Author: I like the an `assets/` directory idea a lot..allows for the case you said and for people to have even deeper nested directories for things like fonts. For the example I'd want to keep the structure neat and clean at least, but I'll also specify in the README that its loose.

>  - A larger class within the visualization's "root" folder which brings the individual components of the visualization together. In the case of the Bloch Sphere, this is `CirqBlochSphere.class.ts`.

Author: I don't think its important actually, when initially toying around with everything we started it that way and it just stuck. I'm going to go through and rename things anyways, delete the `*.d.ts` files, make filenames lowercase, etc, so this will definitely change.

```javascript
module.exports = {
  ...
  devServer: {
    static: path.join(__dirname, 'dist'),
    public: 'localhost:8080',
  },
  ...
};
```
Note that the bundled files that `webpack-dev-server` creates live in memory, so you won't be able to see them. However, you can access them like so:
```html
<script src="YOUR_VIZ_NAME.bundle.js"></script>
```

### Developing in Jupyter Notebook
An alternative to developing using `webpack-dev-server` is to bundle the Typescript and reference the Javascript output. You can spin up a notebook server with `jupyter notebook`, and bundle (while watching for live changes and updating accordingly) with `npx webpack --mode production --watch`. These processes must run simultaneously. This is especially useful for if you want to work with integrating Python code into your visualization. There's an example notebook `example.ipynb` that provides an example on how to do this.

> **NOTE:** In order to access the bundled javascript, you need to include the full path to it: `cirq_ts/dist/YOUR_VIZ_NAME.bundle.js`. If you make any changes to the directory structure, take into account that the path may change as well.

Author: I see this name as a placeholder for now...when the actual PR goes through the big review we will probably be renaming the whole thing. Something to bring up again in Cirq Sync.

> **NOTE:** In order to access the bundled javascript, you need to include the full path to it: `cirq_ts/dist/YOUR_VIZ_NAME.bundle.js`. If you make any changes to the directory structure, take into account that the path may change as well.

Reviewer: We need that prefix, because that will be the actual root level package name in the installation folder, e.g. `<python-env>/lib/site-packages/cirq_ts` and `<python-env>/lib/site-packages/cirq_web` - otherwise it might collide with something called `ts` or `web`, and also then the user will have to say `import web` or `import ts` (although the latter won't be necessary).

### Developing in Google Colaboratory
We currently do not support developing visualizations in Google Colaboratory notebooks. However, visualization ran from the PyPI package are able to be viewed in Colab. 

### Formatting and linting
All Typescript files need to be formatted/linted according to [Google's public Typescript style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html). We use (Google's open source tool GTS)[https://github.com/google/gts] to handle this for you. Run `npm run fix` to handle fixing changes automatically, or refer to the `package.json` file for more options.

### TODO: Testing Visualizations

> - **Testing, which framework?-- important**

Author: Just set up a framework with Mocha and Chai lol. Three.js uses Mocha in their documentation so decided to go that route, and everything is working straightforward so I think we might just stay that way. I was looking at some other open source Google projects and they use Mocha as well so I think we should be good...but always open to change if there are features that make Jasmine better

## Cirq Typescript Development

*This directory contains the code and instructions for visualization tools in a web browser or Colab/Juptyer notebooks. We do this using Typescript. While necessary, this is only half of the code needed to run the `cirq-web` project. For information on how to integrate projects here with Python and the wider Cirq package, see the `cirq_web` directory.*

> Visualizations run on [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/), and we use [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) for package management. To start developing, clone the repository and run `npm install` within this directory to install the necessary packages and begin development. You will need to install Node and npm if you haven't already.

Reviewer 2: Is there any way to run the `npm` instructions from the top-level Cirq directory instead? Not mandatory, but it would be convenient.

Also may be useful to document known error messages in `npm install`. I got this:
```
4 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details
3 moderate severity vulnerabilities
To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
  npm audit fix --force
Run `npm audit` for details.
```
It's unclear if those messages should inspire worry.

Author: I think me and Balint discussed moving to the top at one point..we're opting keep NodeJS and npm stuff within `cirq_ts` since we want cirq-web in general to be an opt in feature of Cirq. I'm pretty sure if we had it in the top-level directory than you would need to have it as a dependency..correct me if there's a way around it. 

There actually is a way that you can run `npm` instructions from the top level though, if you ran `npm --prefix 'cirq-web/cirq_ts'` you should be able to interact with everything as if you were in the `cirq_ts` directory. I can add this into the documentation

Reviewer 2: Including the `npm --prefix 'cirq-web/cirq_ts'` note would be nice as a convenience item.

Author: Done

Reviewer: This still reads as `npm install`. I would suggest implementing `check/npm` with the prefix included.

For developing 3D visualizations, we rely on the [three.js](https://threejs.org/) framework. Understanding their documentation is critical to understanding 3D visualizations in Cirq. 

For bundling the Typescript into Javascript that can be run in the browser, and for overall ease of development, we use [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).

### Visualization build structure

> The reference example for the build structure of a visualization is the Bloch sphere. Reference the `src/bloch_sphere/main.ts` file and the `CirqBlochSphere.class.ts` file to see the code. The `src/bloch_sphere/` directory should serve as a guide for how Typescript visualizations in Cirq should be structured. Visualizations should have:

Reviewer 2: I don't see `CirqBlochSphere.class.ts` anywhere in this directory. Maybe `bloch_sphere.ts`?

#### Unit testing
Run unit tests using `npm run test`. We expect 100% code coverage for unit tests. You can check coverage by running `npm run coverage`.

Unit tests must live adjacent to their source file with the `_test.ts` suffix. So for the file `dir/MyFile.ts`, the corresponding testfile will be `dir/MyFile_test.ts`.

#### Visualization testing
We take the following steps for visualization testing in our development environment:
  1. We generate an generic HTML file with the specified visualization's current JS bundle
  2. We run the HTML file in a headless browser (Using [Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer))
  3. We take a screenshot of the HTML output in the "browser" (Using Puppeteer)
  4. We compare the result of the screenshot with a pre-generated PNG file.

  The screenshot of the HTML browser output must live in a temporary directory; we use the [temp](https://github.com/bruce/node-temp) package to handle that for us. Reference the test at `e2e/bloch_sphere/test_bloch_sphere.ts` to see how to easily generate the screenshot in a temporary directory.

>   The pre-generated PNG file is a screenshot of the developer's choice that represents what the visualization should look like. Each visualization is required to have at least one expected PNG screenshot. For more complex visualizations, multiple screenshots may be needed. It also may be helpful to include a script that automatically generates this expected image for you, see `utils/ss_bloch_sphere.ts` as a reference. (To run the file, `npx ts-node utils/ss_bloch_sphere.ts from this directory.

Reviewer 2: Close the final inline code block: \`npx ts-node utils/ss_bloch_sphere.ts(\`)

## Cirq Typescript Development

> *This directory contains the code and instructions for visualization tools in a web browser or Colab/Juptyer notebooks. We do this using Typescript. While necessary, this is only half of the code needed to run the `cirq-web` project. For information on how to integrate projects here with Python and the wider Cirq package, see the `cirq_web` directory.*

Reviewer: nit: link to `cirq_web` directory

Visualizations run on [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/), and we use [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) for package management. To start developing, clone the repository and run `npm install` within this directory to install the necessary packages and begin development. You will need to install Node and npm if you haven't already.

> For developing 3D visualizations, we rely on the [three.js](https://threejs.org/) framework. Understanding their documentation is critical to understanding 3D visualizations in Cirq. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For developing 3D visualizations, we rely on the [three.js](https://threejs.org/) framework. 
```
This sentence is unnecessary - people can prioritize their level of involvement themselves in the threejs docs, our job is to point them to the places that they can use.

For bundling the Typescript into Javascript that can be run in the browser, and for overall ease of development, we use [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/).

As an additional note, all `npm` commands can be ran from the top-level of Cirq like so:
```

> npm --prefix 'cirq-web/cirq_ts' [YOUR_COMMAND]

Reviewer: replace with explaining what `check/npm` does.

 - A class within the visualization's "root" folder which brings the individual components of the visualization together. In the case of the Bloch Sphere, this is `BlochSphere.class.ts`.
 - A `main.ts` consisting of functions which will be called from the bundled library. These function should handle:
    - Receiving any input data which could affect the visualization.
    - Sending final visualization output to the development environment, notebook, or HTML files. 
    - Combining aspects of the visualization that need to be added separately.

This `main.ts` file will also need to be added as an entry point in the `webpack.config.js` file in order for your visualization to be bundled accordingly.
```javascript
module.exports = {
  entry: {
    bloch_sphere: './src/bloch_sphere/main.ts',
    ...
    YOUR_VIZ_NAME: './src/YOUR_VIZ_NAME/main.ts',
  },
  ...
};
```
You can learn more about Webpack entry points here: [Webpack Entry Points](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/entry-points/)

### Creating visualization bundle files

> Following this structure, you will be able to bundle your visualization by running the command `npx webpack --mode production`. This will build the bundled Javascript file(s) within the `dist/` directory, where you can access and reference them in HTML.

Reviewer: I guess we'll need a `check/npx` as well

Author: Right now I go into the `cirq_ts` directory and run, I don't think `--prefix` is supported yet for it, once I'm done i'll do some more digging

https://github.com/npm/npx/issues/74
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60739550/how-to-specify-pathlike-npm-prefix-in-npx

Reviewer: OK, in that case you can simulate that with 
```
#!/bin/bash

cd cirq-web/cirq_ts
npx $@
```

### Developing visualizations

There are two main ways to develop visualizations you are creating in Cirq. The first, and recommended way, is to spin up a Webpack development server and view your visualizations in the browser. You can also develop using Jupyter notebook if you want to easily test integration with Python code. 

> #### Hot reloading development server (Recommended)

Reviewer: nit: add newline below

Using `webpack-dev-server`, we are able to develop and test visualizations in the browser and have changes update as we're writing the code. You can start this server by running `npm run start` in this directory, and view your work on the port specified by Webpack. This method also requires an `index.html` file placed within the `dist` folder. You can also manually determine where your index file is served from by modifying where `webpack-dev-server` searches for files in the `webpack.config.js` file:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  ...
  devServer: {
    static: path.join(__dirname, 'dist'),
    public: 'localhost:8080',
  },
  ...
};
```

> Note that the bundled files that `webpack-dev-server` creates live in memory, so you won't be able to see them. However, you can access them like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the bundled files that `webpack-dev-server` creates live in memory, so you won't be able to find them on the file system.
```

```html

> <script src="YOUR_VIZ_NAME.bundle.js"></script>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<script src="/YOUR_VIZ_NAME.bundle.js"></script>
```

Right? It is served on the root of the context. 
We can also mention in addition that from the browser `http://localhost:8080/YOUR_VIZ_NAME.bundle.js` is a way to inspect the bundled js.

```

> ### Developing in a Jupyter Notebook

Reviewer: nit: add new line below

An alternative to developing using `webpack-dev-server` is to bundle the Typescript and reference the Javascript output. You can spin up a notebook server with `jupyter notebook`, and bundle (while watching for live changes and updating accordingly) with `npx webpack --mode production --watch`. These processes must run simultaneously. This is especially useful for if you want to work with integrating Python code into your visualization. There's an example notebook `example.ipynb` that provides an example on how to do this.

**NOTE:** In order to access the bundled javascript, you need to include the full path to it: `cirq_ts/dist/YOUR_VIZ_NAME.bundle.js`. If you make any changes to the directory structure, take into account that the path may change as well.

> ### Developing in Google Colaboratory

Reviewer: nit: newline

We currently do not support developing visualizations in Google Colaboratory notebooks. However, visualization ran from the PyPI package are able to be viewed in Colab. 

> ### Formatting and linting

Reviewer: nit: newline

All Typescript files need to be formatted/linted according to [Google's public Typescript style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html). We use (Google's open source tool GTS)[https://github.com/google/gts] to handle this for you. Run `npm run fix` to handle fixing changes automatically, or refer to the `package.json` file for more options.

> ### Testing

Reviewer: nit: newline

We expect developed visualizations to be well tested. The Cirq typescript development environment requires two types of tests for any created visualization, unit testing and visualization testing. Unit testing ensures that the Typescript you wrote compiles correctly and generates the appropriate Three.js objects without breaking the rest of your code. Visualization testing actually compares the visualizations by building the visualization, taking a PNG screenshot, and comparing it to an expected PNG. 

We use [Mocha](https://mochajs.org) and [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) as our main testing tools. For comparing image diffs, we use [Pixelmatch](https://github.com/mapbox/pixelmatch) and [pngjs](https://github.com/lukeapage/pngjs).

> #### Unit testing

Reviewer: nit: newline

Run unit tests using `npm run test`. We expect 100% code coverage for unit tests. You can check coverage by running `npm run coverage`.

Unit tests must live adjacent to their source file with the `_test.ts` suffix. So for the file `dir/MyFile.ts`, the corresponding testfile will be `dir/MyFile_test.ts`.

> #### Visualization testing

Reviewer: nit: newline
